Copyright (C) 2001  Internet Software Consortium.
See COPYRIGHT in the source root or http://isc.org/copyright.html for terms.

$ISC: win32-build.txt,v 1.5 2001/08/09 00:33:47 gson Exp $

       BIND 9.2.0 Beta for Win32 Source Build Instructions.  28-Jul-2001

Building BIND 9.2 on Windows NT/2000 has two prerequisites:
1) You need to install Perl for Windows NT/2000. ActiveState
(http://www.activestate.com/) is the one most people install and use;
2) OpenSSL (http://www.openssl.org) needs to be downloaded and built
on the system on which you are building BIND.

The instructions assume a Visual C++ 6.0 compiler with Visual Studio and
Visual Studio Service Pack 3 or later. It may build and work with earlier
versions but it has not been tested. The binaries may be built and run on
any of the following platforms: NT 4.0 Workstation (SP3 or later), NT 4.0
Server (SP3 or later), Windows 2000 Professional (SP1 or later),
Windows 2000 Server or any kind (SP1 or later). It should run on the
to-be-released Windows XP platforms of various flavors. It will NOT build
or run on Windows 95, Windows 98, etc. platforms.

Step 1: Download and Build OpenSSL

Download and untar the OpenSSL sources from http://www.openssl.org/.
if you have place the BIND sources in /BIND9 you should place the
OpenSSL sources in /OpenSSL-0.9.6b. If you place the sources anywhere
else you will have to edit the libdns.dsp or libdns.mak files to point
the include directories and the link library location to the correct
places as well as move the DLL to the BUILD/Release subdirectory.

Note: Building OpenSSL also requires that you install Perl as it uses
it during its build process. Follow the instructions for NT given
in the INSTALL.W32 file to build the kit. This will produce libeay32.lib
and libeay32.dll in the out32dll subdirectory. 


Step 2 Building BIND

From the command prompt cd to the win32utils under the BIND root.
Execute the BuildAll.bat file. This will do the following:
1) copy config.h.win32 to config.h in the root.
2) create the versions.h file in the root.
3) Build the gen application in the lib/dns directory.
4) Run the gen application and build the required lib/dns header
   files.
5) Create the Build/Release subdirectory under the root of the BIND
   source tree which will hold the binaries being built.
6) Build the libraries, named, application tools like dig, rndc
   dnssec tools, installer, checkconf and checkzones programs,
   BIND 9 Installer.
7) Copies the release notes and the OpenSSL DLL to the BUILD/Release
   directory.
8) Copies the BIND 9 ARM HTML files and the application HTML files
   to the Build\Release area.

If you wish to use Visual Studio for building, you can just run the
BuildSetup.bat file which will create all the necessary files and you
can then use the BINDBuild.dsw to open the workspace for all of the
libraries and applications. These files reside in the same win32utils
directory as this file.

The following files are built:

libisc.dll
libdns.dll
libisccc.dll
libisccfg.dll
liblwres.dll
named.exe
bindevt.dll 
BINDInstall.exe

rndc.exe
dig.exe
host.exe
nslookup.exe
nsupdate.exe

named-checkconf.exe
named-checkzone.exe

dnssec-keygen.exe
dnssec-makekeyset.exe
dnssec-signkey.exe
dnssec-signzone.exe

You should end up with 20 binaries in the bind9/Build/Release
directory. The Install instructions Readme1st.txt from win32utils
and libeay32.dll from the openssl/out32dll/ directory are also copied
into the Build area. In addition you should have 22 HTML files.

The set of files in the directory bind9/Build/Release form the
installation kit which can then be zipped and distributed to any
suitable Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 2000 platform.

Installation is accomplished by running the BINDInstall program. All DLL's
are copied to the system32 area and all applications (including BINDInstall
which may be necessary for uninstalling BIND 9) to the dns/bin directory.
If BIND 8 has previously been installed on the system it must be uninstalled
first by running it's own BINDInstall program.  The BIND 9 installer does
not yet do this.

All bugs found, whether in the process of building the application or
running BIND or the tools should be reported to the bind9 bugs email
account at bind9-bugs@isc.org.

	Danny Mayer
	danny.mayer@nominum.com


